IBX-11150: Recommendation blocks page added in user-doc (#393)
ezsystems/user-documentation: docs/recommendations/raptor_integration/raptor_recommendation_blocks.md

---
description: Recommendation blocks - Raptor integration.
edition: experience
---

# Recommendation block reference

One of the Raptor Integration elements is the introduction of recommendation blocks available in the [Page Builder]([[= developer_doc =]]/content_management/pages/page_builder_guide/).

Each Content, Product, or Commerce recommendation can be added to a landing page using blocks divided into categories:

## Recommendations: Content

The following blocks can be used to present content recommendations:

|Block|Description|
|-----|-----------|

> |[Most popular content](#most-popular-content-block)|Highlights the most frequently viewed content.|

Reviewer: Hint: each block contains its description in Raptor control panel, e.g. 

> Most trending or popular contents across the website defined by the calculation type (...)

Ref.: https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetPopularContentWeb
<img width="665" height="80" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f6df68e6-124c-4990-9f2d-ab650c6e1bc3" />

No strong feelings whether we should use this or our own description, just saying that it's out there :)

---

> description: Recommendation blocks - Raptor integration.

Reviewer: Wouldn't it be better if we were more explicit here?
```suggestion
description: Recommendation Page Builder blocks - Raptor integration.
```

My experience shows that "block" can mean different things to different Personas. It's not a block that can be used anywhere in DXP, but only in a landing page content item.

Edit: I see that we mention PB in the next line, so maybe not necessary.

---
description: Recommendation Page Builder blocks - Raptor integration.

> edition: experience

Reviewer 2: Long time without something new in user doc, it's time to fest by lighting those pills! :)
```suggestion
description: Recommendation Page Builder blocks - Raptor integration.
edition: experience
month_change: true
```
And in block_reference.md too, please.

month_change: true
---

> # Recommendation block reference

Reviewer 3: I'd add a pill that informs it is an add-on.

Author: We will get back to it after release (we need to take care of another, already existing add-ons, so new PR will be needed).

> The [Raptor](https://www.raptorservices.com/) Integration introduces a set of recommendation blocks.

Reviewer 3: I would add a sentence of infroduction:

If the [Raptor connector](<link to Raptor page in dev doc>) [add-on](<link to add-ons explanation) is installed and configured in your system, the following blocks are available in [Page Builder]...

Also, is "integration" used as a a synonym to bundle/package/feature/**add-on**/LTS-update? 

Let's use one of the exisitng terms and avoid introducing another one.

Author: Integration is, I would say, big "container" that includes connector, blocks, and so on.

> The [Raptor](https://www.raptorservices.com/) Integration introduces a set of recommendation blocks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [Raptor](https://www.raptorservices.com/) connector add-on introduces a set of recommendation blocks.
```

> These blocks are available in the [Page Builder](create_edit_pages.md#page-builder-interface) and can be configured to control their behavior and output.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These blocks are available in [Page Builder](create_edit_pages.md#page-builder-interface) and can be configured to control their behavior and output.
```

> These blocks are available in the [Page Builder]([[= developer_doc =]]/content_management/pages/page_builder_guide/) and can be configured to control their behavior and output.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure about sending contributor users to the dev doc.

```suggestion
These blocks are available in the [Page Builder](create_edit_pages.md#page-builder-interface) and can be configured to control their behavior and output.
```

![Recommendation blocks](img/recommendation_blocks.png)

Each recommendation block corresponds to a specific Raptor module.

> It's configurable in the [Raptor Control Panel](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/) where parameters and settings can be modified.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You configure modules in the [Raptor Control Panel](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/) where parameters and settings can be modified.
```
I assume "it's configurable" refers to configuring Raptor modules?

![Raptor module](img/raptor_module.png)

> In the Page Builder, only the required parameters for each block can be configured.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In Page Builder, only the required parameters for each block can be configured.
```
I suggest removing the article for consistency, it seems like we've never used it next to "Page Builder". So either we keep it here and fix all occurrences, or remove it here.

Additional, optional settings are available through the **Go to advanced settings in Raptor** link.
It redirects to the respective module configuration in the Raptor Control Panel, where these settings can be adjusted and saved.

![Advanced settings](img/advanced_settings.png)

> Each Content, Product, and Commerce recommendations can be added to a landing page using blocks divided into categories:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Raptor recommendations can be added to a landing page by using blocks that belong to the following categories:
```

## Recommendations: Content

The following blocks can be used to present content recommendations:

|Block|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|[Most popular content](#most-popular-content-block)|Highlights the most frequently viewed content.|
|[Other customers have also seen this content](#other-customers-have-also-seen-this-content-block)|Displays content viewed by other users with similar behavior.|
|[Personalized content recommendations](#personalized-content-recommendations-block)|Provides personalized content recommendations based on user behavior and preferences.|

### Most popular content block

Highlights the most trending or popular content that is most frequently viewed by users across the website.
It helps identify popular and relevant content items.

> This block uses [GetPopularContentWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetPopularContentWeb) Raptor recommendation strategy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This block uses the [GetPopularContentWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetPopularContentWeb) recommendation strategy.
```

On the **Properties** tab, set values in the following fields:

- **Name** – Enter a name for the page block.

> - **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name for the block to be displayed on page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name for the block to be displayed on the page.
```
Please fix all instances

- **Recommendations limit** - Set the number of recommendations to be displayed (default = 4).

### Other customers have also seen this content block

Highlights content viewed by other users with similar behavior.
Usually applied on the content page, returns content that is often viewed together with the given content.

> It increases the engagement of the customers by helping to identify related and relevant content.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It increases the engagement of the customers by helping identify related and relevant content.
```

> This block uses [GetSimilarContentWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetSimilarContentWeb) Raptor recommendation strategy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This block uses the [GetSimilarContentWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetSimilarContentWeb) recommendation strategy.
```

On the **Properties** tab, set values in the following fields:

- **Name** – Enter a name for the page block.
- **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name for the block to be displayed on page.
- **Select content for recommendations** - Select content to be used for recommendations. This content is used as the basis for recommendations, allowing Raptor to suggest similar or related items.
- **Recommendations limit** - Set the number of recommendations to be displayed (default = 4).

### Personalized content recommendations block

Generates complementary, personalized content tailored to each user based on their behavior and preferences.
Increases relevance and engagement through personalized suggestions.

> This block uses [GetUserContentRecommendationsWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetUserContentRecommendationsWeb) Raptor recommendation strategy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This block uses the [GetUserContentRecommendationsWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetUserContentRecommendationsWeb) recommendation strategy.
```

On the **Properties** tab, set values in the following fields:

- **Name** – Enter a name for the page block.
- **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name for the block to be displayed on page.
- **Recommendations limit** - Set the number of recommendations to be displayed (default = 4).

## Recommendations: Product

The following blocks can be used to display product suggestions based on visitors’ browsing history:

|Block|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|[Most popular products](#most-popular-products-block)|Presents trending and highly popular products.|
|[Most popular products in category](#most-popular-products-in-category-block)|Highlights products that are most popular in the category.|
|[Other customers have also seen](#other-customers-have-also-seen-block)|Shows products also viewed by other customers.|

### Most popular products block

Presents products that are currently trending and widely popular among users.

> It's defined by the calculation type, interaction type, and aggregation period.

Reviewer 3: What is "it"? The popularity? If so, "The popularity is determined based on..."

Author: I've changed to: Its behavior is defined...

Helps quickly identify top-performing and popular items.

> This block uses [GetPopularItemsWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetPopularItemsWeb) Raptor recommendation strategy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This block uses the [GetPopularItemsWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetPopularItemsWeb) recommendation strategy.
```

On the **Properties** tab, set values in the following fields:

- **Name** – Enter a name for the page block.
- **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name for the block to be displayed on page.
- **Recommendations limit** - Set the number of recommendations to be displayed (default = 4).

Toggle the **Show only available items** option on to display only products that are currently in stock.

### Most popular products in category block

Displays the most popular products within a selected category.

> It's defined by the interaction type and aggregation period.

Reviewer 3: Again - what is "it"? 
How about "They (the products) are... or The popularity is...
 determined based on the interaction type and aggregation period."

Author: I've changed to: Its behavior is defined...

> Helps identify most popular items within a specific category.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Helps identify the most popular items within a specific category.
```

> This block uses [GetPopularItemsInCategoryWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetPopularItemsInCategoryWeb) Raptor recommendation strategy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This block uses the [GetPopularItemsInCategoryWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetPopularItemsInCategoryWeb) recommendation strategy.
```

On the **Properties** tab, set values in the following fields:

- **Name** – Enter a name for the page block.
- **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name for the block to be displayed on page.
- **Product category** - Select product category.

> - **Recommendations limit** - Set the number of recommendations to be displayed (default = 4).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Recommendations limit** - Set the number of recommendations to be displayed. Default = 4.
```
(Like in the Dashbaord block reference)

Toggle the **Show only available items** option on to display only products that are currently in stock.

### Other customers have also seen block

Shows products viewed by users with similar behavior.
Usually applied on the product page, returns items that are often viewed together with the given product.
Enhances user experience by suggesting related products.

> This block uses [GetSimilarItemsWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetSimilarItemsWeb) Raptor recommendation strategy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This block uses the [GetSimilarItemsWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetSimilarItemsWeb) recommendation strategy.
```

On the **Properties** tab, set values in the following fields:

- **Name** – Enter a name for the page block.
- **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name for the block to be displayed on page.

> - **Product code** - Enter a product code for a base product or select base product from the Product Catalog.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Product code** - Enter a product code to be used as a base product or select the base product from the Product catalog.
```

- **Recommendations limit** - Set the number of recommendations to be displayed (default = 4).

Toggle the **Show only available items** option on to display only products that are currently in stock.

## Recommendations: Commerce

The following blocks can be used to show recommendations based on visitors purchase history (buy and basket events):

|Block|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|[The Personal Shopping Assistant](#the-personal-shopping-assistant-block)|Assists users by suggesting relevant products in real time based on their activity.|
|[User's item history or current basket items sorted by recent items or top items](#users-item-history-or-current-basket-items-sorted-by-recent-items-or-top-items-block)|Displays the user’s item history or current basket, sorted by recent or top items.|

### The Personal Shopping Assistant block

Provides real-time product recommendations based on user behavior.
The web personal shopping assistant recommends items at each step of the customer journey, with a short-term focus.
It helps users discover relevant items while browsing by providing personalized recommendations based on their current behavior.

> This block uses [GetUserItemRecommendationsWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetUserItemRecommendationsWeb) Raptor recommendation strategy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This block uses the [GetUserItemRecommendationsWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetUserItemRecommendationsWeb) recommendation strategy.
```

On the **Properties** tab, set values in the following fields:

- **Name** – Enter a name for the page block.
- **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name for the block to be displayed on page.
- **Product (optional)** - Add or select base product.

> - **Recommendations limit** - Set the number of recommendations to be displayed (default = 4).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Recommendations limit** - Set the number of recommendations to be displayed. Default = 4.
```

Toggle the **Show only available items** option on to display only products that are currently in stock.

### User's item history or current basket items sorted by recent items or top items block

Shows the user’s past or current basket items, sorted by recent activity or top items.
Makes it easier to find and review previously viewed or added products.
This module can be configured to return recently viewed items, most interacted items, or items currently in the basket.

> This block uses [GetUserItemHistoryWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetUserItemHistoryWeb) Raptor recommendation strategy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This block uses the [GetUserItemHistoryWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetUserItemHistoryWeb) recommendation strategy.
```

On the **Properties** tab, set values in the following fields:

- **Name** – Enter a name for the page block.
- **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name for the block to be displayed on page.

> - **Recommendations limit** - Set the number of recommendations to be displayed (default = 4).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Recommendations limit** - Set the number of recommendations to be displayed. Default = 4.
```

Toggle the **Show only available items** option on to display only products that are currently in stock.

!!! tip

>     For the list of all available blocks in Page Builder, see [Block reference](block_reference.md) page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    For a list of all blocks available in Page Builder, see [Block reference](block_reference.md).
```

---
description: Recommendation Page Builder blocks - Raptor integration.
edition: experience
month_change: true
---

# Recommendation block reference

The [Raptor](https://www.raptorservices.com/) Integration introduces a set of recommendation blocks.
These blocks are available in the [Page Builder](create_edit_pages.md#page-builder-interface) and can be configured to control their behavior and output.

![Recommendation blocks](img/recommendation_blocks.png)

Each recommendation block corresponds to a specific Raptor module.
It's configurable in the [Raptor Control Panel](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/) where parameters and settings can be modified.

![Raptor module](img/raptor_module.png)

In the Page Builder, only the required parameters for each block can be configured.
Additional, optional settings are available through the **Go to advanced settings in Raptor** link.
It redirects to the respective module configuration in the Raptor Control Panel, where these settings can be adjusted and saved.

![Advanced settings](img/advanced_settings.png)

> Each Content, Product, and Commerce recommendation can be added to a landing page using blocks divided into categories:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Content, Product, and Commerce recommendations can be added to a landing page using blocks divided into categories:
```

## Recommendations: Content

The following blocks can be used to present content recommendations:

|Block|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|[Most popular content](#most-popular-content-block)|Highlights the most frequently viewed content.|
|[Other customers have also seen this content](#other-customers-have-also-seen-this-content-block)|Displays content viewed by other users with similar behavior.|
|[Personalized content recommendations](#personalized-content-recommendations-block)|Provides personalized content recommendations based on user behavior and preferences.|

### Most popular content block

Highlights the most trending or popular content that is most frequently viewed by users across the website.

> It's defined by the calculation type, interaction type, and aggregation period.

Reviewer 4: Not knowing what calculation type is, is there a resource we could link to?

There's: https://content.raptorservices.com/help-center/all-products-sorted-by-popularity-and-trends-for-raptor-site-search

<img width="841" height="250" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cfa2135b-cc5d-44e1-a626-abeb2e51698e" />

but it's about search 😢

Author: Let's delete for now, as I don't have proper link.

It helps identify popular and relevant content items.

This block uses [GetPopularContentWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetPopularContentWeb) Raptor recommendation strategy.

On the **Properties** tab, set values in the following fields:

- **Name** – Enter a name for the page block.

> - **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name fot the block to be displayed on page.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name for the block to be displayed on page.
```
Vale

- **Recommendations limit** - Set the number of recommendations to be displayed (default = 4).

### Other customers have also seen this content block

Highlights content viewed by other users with similar behavior.
Usually applied on the content page, returns content that is often viewed together with the given content.
It increases the engagement of the customers by helping to identify related and relevant content.

This block uses [GetSimilarContentWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetSimilarContentWeb) Raptor recommendation strategy.

On the **Properties** tab, set values in the following fields:

- **Name** – Enter a name for the page block.

> - **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name fot the block to be displayed on page.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name for the block to be displayed on page.
```
Vale

> - **Select content for recommendations** - Select content to be used for recommendations.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Select content for recommendations** - Select content to be used as the basis for recommendations.
```
I can't suggest the exact wording right now, but I'ld highlight that this content will be used as the base for recommendations - Raptor will use this content to recommend more content like this (or related content)

- **Recommendations limit** - Set the number of recommendations to be displayed (default = 4).

### Personalized content recommendations block

Generates complementary, personalized content tailored to each user based on their behavior and preferences.
Increases relevance and engagement through personalized suggestions.

This block uses [GetUserContentRecommendationsWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetUserContentRecommendationsWeb) Raptor recommendation strategy.

On the **Properties** tab, set values in the following fields:

- **Name** – Enter a name for the page block.

> - **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name fot the block to be displayed on page.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name for the block to be displayed on page.
```
Vale is right:
> [Ibexa.Spellcheck] Did you really mean 'fot'?

- **Recommendations limit** - Set the number of recommendations to be displayed (default = 4).

## Recommendations: Product

The following blocks can be used to display product suggestions based on visitors’ browsing history:

|Block|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|[Most popular products](#most-popular-products-block)|Presents trending and highly popular products.|

> |[Most popular products in category](#most-popular-products-in-category-block)|Presents trending and highly popular products.|

Reviewer 4: same description as above, they need to be different

> |[Other customers have also seen](#other-customers-have-also-seen-block)|Shows content or products also viewed by other customers.|

Reviewer 4: > The following blocks can be used to display product suggestions based on visitors’ browsing history:

but here we say it shows content or product , which one is right?

Author: product, of course!

### Most popular products block

Presents products that are currently trending and widely popular among users.
It's defined by the calculation type, interaction type, and aggregation period.
Helps quickly identify top-performing and popular items.

This block uses [GetPopularItemsWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetPopularItemsWeb) Raptor recommendation strategy.

On the **Properties** tab, set values in the following fields:

- **Name** – Enter a name for the page block.

> - **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name fot the block to be displayed on page.

Reviewer 4: Vale

- **Recommendations limit** - Set the number of recommendations to be displayed (default = 4).

> Toggle the **Enable showing only available items** option on to display only products that are currently in stock.

Reviewer 4: `Show only available items` - please verify the label everywhere

### Most popular products in category block

Displays the most popular products within a selected category.
It's defined by the interaction type and aggregation period.
Helps identify most popular items within a specific category.

This block uses [GetPopularItemsInCategoryWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetPopularItemsInCategoryWeb) Raptor recommendation strategy.

On the **Properties** tab, set values in the following fields:

- **Name** – Enter a name for the page block.

> - **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name fot the block to be displayed on page.

Reviewer 4: Vale (please fix all of these)

|-----|-----------|
|[The Personal Shopping Assistant](#the-personal-shopping-assistant-block)|Assists users by suggesting relevant products in real time based on their activity.|
|[User's item history or current basket items sorted by recent items or top items](#users-item-history-or-current-basket-items-sorted-by-recent-items-or-top-items-block)|Displays the user’s item history or current basket, sorted by recent or top items.|

### The Personal Shopping Assistant block

Provides real-time product recommendations based on user behavior.
The web personal shopping assistant recommends items at each step of the customer journey, with a short-term focus.
It helps users discover relevant items while browsing by providing personalized recommendations based on their current behavior.

This block uses [GetUserItemRecommendationsWeb](https://controlpanel.raptorsmartadvisor.com/pc/customer/tnt/product/web/module/GetUserItemRecommendationsWeb) Raptor recommendation strategy.

On the **Properties** tab, set values in the following fields:

- **Name** – Enter a name for the page block.
- **Name displayed on page (optional)** - Enter a name fot the block to be displayed on page.

> - **Product id (optional)** - Add or select base product.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Product code (optional)** - Add or select base product.
```
?
